1. Introduction
Since the rise of the Internet one of the most important factors of
information technology and communication has been the security of
information. Sometimes it is unable to keep the contents of a message
secret, it may also be necessary to keep the existence of the message
secret. The technique used to implement this, is called steganography.
Steganography is the art and science of invisible communication. It helps to
hide information in ways that prevent the detection of hidden messages. The
word steganography comes from the Greek words "stegos" meaning "cover"
and "grafia" meaning "writing" defining it as "covered writing". In image
steganography the information is hidden exclusively in images. Today
steganography is mostly used on computers with digital data communication
through internet. Cryptography is used to hide secret information from other.
Steganography
differs
from
cryptography
in
the
sense
that
where
cryptography focuses on keeping the contents of a message secret,
steganography focuses on keeping the existence of a message secret.
Steganography and cryptography are both ways to protect information from
third
party
access.
Other
technologies
that
are
closely
related
to
steganography is watermarking. In watermarking all of the instances of an
object are "marked" in the same way. The kind of information hidden in
objects when using watermarking is usually a signature to signify origin or
ownership for the purpose of copyright protection. In watermarking the fact
that information is hidden inside the files may be public knowledge –
sometimes
it
may
even
be
visible
–
imperceptibility of the information is crucial.
